# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`openvoxdb`](#openvoxdb): manage PuppetDB
* [`openvoxdb::database::postgresql`](#openvoxdb--database--postgresql): create the PuppetDB postgresql database
* [`openvoxdb::master::config`](#openvoxdb--master--config): manage the puppet configuration on the primary
* [`openvoxdb::server`](#openvoxdb--server): manage the PuppetDB server

#### Private Classes

* `openvoxdb::database::ssl_configuration`: configure SSL for the PuppetDB postgresql database
* `openvoxdb::master::puppetdb_conf`: manage the puppetdb.conf file on the puppet primary
* `openvoxdb::master::report_processor`: manage the installation of the report processor on the primary
* `openvoxdb::master::routes`: manages the routes configuration file on the master
* `openvoxdb::master::storeconfigs`: configure the puppet master to enable storeconfigs and to use puppetdb as the storeconfigs backend
* `openvoxdb::params`: default configuration settings
* `openvoxdb::server::command_processing`: manage puppetdb config ini
* `openvoxdb::server::database`: manage puppetdb database ini
* `openvoxdb::server::firewall`: manage puppetdb firewall rules
* `openvoxdb::server::global`: manage puppetdb global setting
* `openvoxdb::server::jetty`: configures puppetdb jetty ini
* `openvoxdb::server::puppetdb`: manage puppetdb ini
* `openvoxdb::server::read_database`: manage puppetdb read_database ini
* `openvoxdb::server::validate_db`: validates the database connection
* `openvoxdb::server::validate_read_db`: validates the read only database connection

### Defined types

#### Private Defined types

* `openvoxdb::database::default_read_grant`: grant read permissions to $database_read_only_username by default, for new tables created by $database_username
* `openvoxdb::database::postgresql_ssl_rules`: manage the pg_ident.conf and pg_hba.conf files
* `openvoxdb::database::read_grant`: grant read-only permissions to $database_read_only_username for all objects in $schema of $database_name
* `openvoxdb::database::read_only_user`: manage the creation of a read-only postgres users

### Resource types

* [`puppetdb_conn_validator`](#puppetdb_conn_validator): Verify that a connection can be successfully established between a node and the puppetdb server.  Its primary use is as a precondition to pre

### Functions

* [`openvoxdb::create_subsetting_resource_hash`](#openvoxdb--create_subsetting_resource_hash)
* [`openvoxdb::flatten_java_args`](#openvoxdb--flatten_java_args)

### Data types

* [`Openvoxdb::Ttl`](#Openvoxdb--Ttl)

## Classes

### <a name="openvoxdb"></a>`openvoxdb`

manage PuppetDB

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `openvoxdb` class:

* [`listen_address`](#-openvoxdb--listen_address)
* [`listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--listen_port)
* [`disable_cleartext`](#-openvoxdb--disable_cleartext)
* [`open_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--open_listen_port)
* [`ssl_listen_address`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_listen_address)
* [`ssl_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_listen_port)
* [`disable_ssl`](#-openvoxdb--disable_ssl)
* [`open_ssl_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--open_ssl_listen_port)
* [`ssl_protocols`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_protocols)
* [`postgresql_ssl_on`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_on)
* [`postgresql_ssl_folder`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_folder)
* [`postgresql_ssl_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_cert_path)
* [`postgresql_ssl_key_path`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_key_path)
* [`postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path)
* [`cipher_suites`](#-openvoxdb--cipher_suites)
* [`migrate`](#-openvoxdb--migrate)
* [`manage_dbserver`](#-openvoxdb--manage_dbserver)
* [`manage_database`](#-openvoxdb--manage_database)
* [`manage_package_repo`](#-openvoxdb--manage_package_repo)
* [`postgres_version`](#-openvoxdb--postgres_version)
* [`database_host`](#-openvoxdb--database_host)
* [`database_port`](#-openvoxdb--database_port)
* [`database_username`](#-openvoxdb--database_username)
* [`database_password`](#-openvoxdb--database_password)
* [`manage_db_password`](#-openvoxdb--manage_db_password)
* [`database_name`](#-openvoxdb--database_name)
* [`jdbc_ssl_properties`](#-openvoxdb--jdbc_ssl_properties)
* [`database_listen_address`](#-openvoxdb--database_listen_address)
* [`database_validate`](#-openvoxdb--database_validate)
* [`node_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--node_ttl)
* [`node_purge_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--node_purge_ttl)
* [`report_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--report_ttl)
* [`facts_blacklist`](#-openvoxdb--facts_blacklist)
* [`gc_interval`](#-openvoxdb--gc_interval)
* [`node_purge_gc_batch_limit`](#-openvoxdb--node_purge_gc_batch_limit)
* [`conn_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--conn_max_age)
* [`conn_lifetime`](#-openvoxdb--conn_lifetime)
* [`puppetdb_package`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_package)
* [`puppetdb_service`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_service)
* [`puppetdb_service_status`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_service_status)
* [`puppetdb_user`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_user)
* [`puppetdb_group`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_group)
* [`puppetdb_server`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_server)
* [`confdir`](#-openvoxdb--confdir)
* [`vardir`](#-openvoxdb--vardir)
* [`java_args`](#-openvoxdb--java_args)
* [`merge_default_java_args`](#-openvoxdb--merge_default_java_args)
* [`max_threads`](#-openvoxdb--max_threads)
* [`puppetdb_version`](#-openvoxdb--puppetdb_version)
* [`read_database_host`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_host)
* [`read_database_port`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_port)
* [`read_database_username`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_username)
* [`read_database_password`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_password)
* [`manage_read_db_password`](#-openvoxdb--manage_read_db_password)
* [`read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties)
* [`read_database_validate`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_validate)
* [`read_database_name`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_name)
* [`read_conn_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--read_conn_max_age)
* [`read_conn_lifetime`](#-openvoxdb--read_conn_lifetime)
* [`ssl_dir`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_dir)
* [`ssl_set_cert_paths`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_set_cert_paths)
* [`ssl_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_cert_path)
* [`ssl_key_pk8_path`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_key_pk8_path)
* [`ssl_key_path`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_key_path)
* [`ssl_ca_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_ca_cert_path)
* [`ssl_deploy_certs`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_deploy_certs)
* [`ssl_key`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_key)
* [`ssl_cert`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_cert)
* [`ssl_ca_cert`](#-openvoxdb--ssl_ca_cert)
* [`manage_firewall`](#-openvoxdb--manage_firewall)
* [`command_threads`](#-openvoxdb--command_threads)
* [`concurrent_writes`](#-openvoxdb--concurrent_writes)
* [`store_usage`](#-openvoxdb--store_usage)
* [`temp_usage`](#-openvoxdb--temp_usage)
* [`disable_update_checking`](#-openvoxdb--disable_update_checking)
* [`certificate_whitelist_file`](#-openvoxdb--certificate_whitelist_file)
* [`certificate_whitelist`](#-openvoxdb--certificate_whitelist)
* [`database_max_pool_size`](#-openvoxdb--database_max_pool_size)
* [`read_database_max_pool_size`](#-openvoxdb--read_database_max_pool_size)
* [`automatic_dlo_cleanup`](#-openvoxdb--automatic_dlo_cleanup)
* [`cleanup_timer_interval`](#-openvoxdb--cleanup_timer_interval)
* [`dlo_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--dlo_max_age)
* [`java_bin`](#-openvoxdb--java_bin)
* [`postgresql_password_encryption`](#-openvoxdb--postgresql_password_encryption)

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--listen_address"></a>`listen_address`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

The address that the web server should bind to for HTTP requests. Defaults to
`localhost`. Set to `0.0.0.0` to listen on all addresses.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::listen_address`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--listen_port"></a>`listen_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged`

The port on which the puppetdb web server should accept HTTP requests. Defaults
to `8080`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--disable_cleartext"></a>`disable_cleartext`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, the puppetdb web server will only serve HTTPS and not HTTP requests (defaults to false).

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_cleartext`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--open_listen_port"></a>`open_listen_port`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, open the `http_listen_port` on the firewall. Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::open_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_listen_address"></a>`ssl_listen_address`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

The address that the web server should bind to for HTTPS requests. Defaults to
`0.0.0.0` to listen on all addresses.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_listen_address`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_listen_port"></a>`ssl_listen_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged`

The port on which the puppetdb web server should accept HTTPS requests. Defaults
to `8081`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--disable_ssl"></a>`disable_ssl`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, the puppetdb web server will only serve HTTP and not HTTPS requests.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_ssl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--open_ssl_listen_port"></a>`open_ssl_listen_port`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, open the `ssl_listen_port` on the firewall. Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::open_ssl_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_protocols"></a>`ssl_protocols`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Specify the supported SSL protocols for PuppetDB (e.g. TLSv1, TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2.)

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_protocols`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_on"></a>`postgresql_ssl_on`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, it configures SSL connections between PuppetDB and the PostgreSQL database.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_on`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_folder"></a>`postgresql_ssl_folder`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to the Postgresql SSL folder.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_folder`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_cert_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to the Postgresql SSL certificate.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_key_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_key_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to the Postgresql SSL key.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_key_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to the Postgresql SSL CA.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--cipher_suites"></a>`cipher_suites`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Configure jetty's supported `cipher-suites` (e.g. `SSL_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384`).
Defaults to `undef`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::cipher_suites`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--migrate"></a>`migrate`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, puppetdb will automatically migrate to the latest database format at startup. If `false`, if the database format supplied by this version of PuppetDB doesn't match the version expected (whether newer or older), PuppetDB will exit with an error status. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::migrate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_dbserver"></a>`manage_dbserver`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, the PostgreSQL server will be managed by this module. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_dbserver`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_database"></a>`manage_database`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, the PostgreSQL database will be managed by this module. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_database`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_package_repo"></a>`manage_package_repo`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, the official postgresql.org repo will be added and postgres won't
be installed from the regular repository. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_pg_repo`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgres_version"></a>`postgres_version`

Data type: `String[1]`

If the postgresql.org repo is installed, you can install several versions of
postgres. Defaults to `11` with PuppetDB version 7.0.0 or newer, and `9.6` in older versions.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgres_version`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_host"></a>`database_host`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

Hostname to use for the database connection. For single case installations this
should be left as the default. Defaults to `localhost`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_port"></a>`database_port`

Data type: `Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged`

The port that the database server listens on. Defaults to `5432`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_username"></a>`database_username`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the database user to connect as. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_password"></a>`database_password`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The password for the database user. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_db_password"></a>`manage_db_password`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not the database password in database.ini will be managed by this module.
Set this to `false` if you want to set the password some other way.
Defaults to `true`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_db_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_name"></a>`database_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the database instance to connect to. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--jdbc_ssl_properties"></a>`jdbc_ssl_properties`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The text to append to the JDBC connection URI. This should begin with a '?'
character. For example, to use SSL for the PostgreSQL connection, set this
parameter's value to `?ssl=true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::jdbc_ssl_properties`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_listen_address"></a>`database_listen_address`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

A comma-separated list of hostnames or IP addresses on which the postgres
server should listen for incoming connections. This defaults to `localhost`.
This parameter maps directly to PostgreSQL's `listen_addresses`
config option. Use a `*` to allow connections on any accessible address.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgres_listen_addresses`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_validate"></a>`database_validate`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, the module will attempt to connect to the database using the specified
settings and fail if it is not able to do so. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_validate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--node_ttl"></a>`node_ttl`

Data type: `String[1]`

The length of time a node can go without receiving any new data before it's
automatically deactivated. (defaults to '7d', which is a 7-day period. Set to
'0d' to disable auto-deactivation).  This option is supported in PuppetDB >=
1.1.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--node_purge_ttl"></a>`node_purge_ttl`

Data type: `String[1]`

The length of time a node can be deactivated before it's deleted from the
database. (defaults to '14d', which is a 14-day period. Set to '0d' to disable
purging). This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.2.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_purge_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--report_ttl"></a>`report_ttl`

Data type: `String[1]`

The length of time reports should be stored before being deleted. (defaults to
`14d`, which is a 14-day period). This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.1.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::report_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--facts_blacklist"></a>`facts_blacklist`

Data type: `Optional[Array]`

A list of fact names to be ignored whenever submitted.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::facts_blacklist`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--gc_interval"></a>`gc_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

This controls how often (in minutes) to compact the database. The compaction
process reclaims space and deletes unnecessary rows. If not supplied, the
default is every 60 minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 0.9.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::gc_interval`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--node_purge_gc_batch_limit"></a>`node_purge_gc_batch_limit`

Data type: `Integer`

Nodes will be purged in batches of this size, one batch per gc-interval.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_purge_gc_batch_limit`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--conn_max_age"></a>`conn_max_age`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum time (in minutes) for a pooled connection to remain unused before
it is closed off.

If not supplied, we default to `60` minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.1.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::conn_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--conn_lifetime"></a>`conn_lifetime`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum time (in minutes) a pooled connection should remain open. Any
connections older than this setting will be closed off. Connections currently in
use will not be affected until they are returned to the pool.

If not supplied, we won't terminate connections based on their age alone. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.4.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::conn_lifetime`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_package"></a>`puppetdb_package`

Data type: `String[1]`

The PuppetDB package name in the package manager. Defaults to `present`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_package`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_service"></a>`puppetdb_service`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the PuppetDB service. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_service`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_service_status"></a>`puppetdb_service_status`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Sets whether the service should be `running ` or `stopped`. When set to `stopped` the
service doesn't start on boot either. Valid values are `true`, `running`,
`false`, and `stopped`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_service_status`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_user"></a>`puppetdb_user`

Data type: `String[1]`

Puppetdb service user

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_user`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_group"></a>`puppetdb_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Puppetdb service group

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_group`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_server"></a>`puppetdb_server`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

Puppetdb server hostname or IP address.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_server`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--confdir"></a>`confdir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

The PuppetDB configuration directory. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/conf.d`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::confdir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--vardir"></a>`vardir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

The parent directory for the MQ's data directory.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::vardir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--java_args"></a>`java_args`

Data type: `Hash`

Java VM options used for overriding default Java VM options specified in
PuppetDB package. Defaults to `{}`. See
[PuppetDB Configuration](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/configure.html)
to get more details about the current defaults.

For example, to set `-Xmx512m -Xms256m` options use:

    {
        '-Xmx' => '512m',
        '-Xms' => '256m',
    }

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::java_args`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--merge_default_java_args"></a>`merge_default_java_args`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets whether the provided java args should be merged with the defaults, or
should override the defaults. This setting is necessary if any of the defaults
are to be removed. Defaults to true. If `false`, the `java_args` in the PuppetDB
init config file will reflect only what is passed via the `java_args` param.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::merge_default_java_args`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--max_threads"></a>`max_threads`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Jetty option to explicitly set `max-threads`. Defaults to `undef`, so the
PuppetDB-Jetty default is used.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::max_threads`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--puppetdb_version"></a>`puppetdb_version`

Data type: `String[1]`

Version of the PuppetDB package to install. Defaults to `present`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_version`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_host"></a>`read_database_host`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Host]`

*This parameter must be set to use another PuppetDB instance for queries.*

The hostname or IP address of the read database server. If set to `undef`, and
`manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of the `database_host`
parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_port"></a>`read_database_port`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Port::Unprivileged]`

The port that the read database server listens on. If `read_database_host`
is set to `undef`, and `manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of
the `database_port` parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_username"></a>`read_database_username`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The name of the read database user to connect as. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_password"></a>`read_database_password`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]]`

The password for the read database user. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This option is
supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_read_db_password"></a>`manage_read_db_password`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether or not the database password in read-database.ini will be managed by this module.
Set this to `false` if you want to set the password some other way.
Defaults to `true`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_read_db_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties"></a>`read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`

Data type: `String`

The text to append to the JDBC connection URI. This should begin with a '?'
character. For example, to use SSL for the PostgreSQL connection, set this
parameter's value to `?ssl=true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_validate"></a>`read_database_validate`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, the module will attempt to connect to the database using the specified
settings and fail if it is not able to do so. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_validate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_name"></a>`read_database_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the read database instance to connect to. If `read_database_host`
is set to `undef`, and `manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of
the `database_name` parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_conn_max_age"></a>`read_conn_max_age`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum time (in minutes) for a pooled read database connection to remain
unused before it is closed off.

If not supplied, we default to 60 minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_conn_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_conn_lifetime"></a>`read_conn_lifetime`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum time (in minutes) a pooled read database connection should remain
open. Any connections older than this setting will be closed off. Connections
currently in use will not be affected until they are returned to the pool.

If not supplied, we won't terminate connections based on their age alone. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_conn_lifetime`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_dir"></a>`ssl_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Base directory for PuppetDB SSL configuration. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/ssl`
or `/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl` for FOSS and PE respectively.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_dir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_set_cert_paths"></a>`ssl_set_cert_paths`

Data type: `Boolean`

A switch to enable or disable the management of SSL certificates in your
`jetty.ini` configuration file.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_set_cert_paths`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_cert_path"></a>`ssl_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to your SSL certificate for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_key_pk8_path"></a>`ssl_key_pk8_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to the SSL pk8 key for populating `jetty.ini`, will be generated from
the SSL key as needed automatically.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key_pk8_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_key_path"></a>`ssl_key_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to your SSL key for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_ca_cert_path"></a>`ssl_ca_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Path to your SSL CA for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_ca_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_deploy_certs"></a>`ssl_deploy_certs`

Data type: `Boolean`

A boolean switch to enable or disable the management of SSL keys in your
`ssl_dir`. Default is `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_deploy_certs`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_key"></a>`ssl_key`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]]`

Contents of your SSL key, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_cert"></a>`ssl_cert`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]]`

Contents of your SSL certificate, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_cert`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--ssl_ca_cert"></a>`ssl_ca_cert`

Data type: `Optional[Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]]`

Contents of your SSL CA certificate, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_ca_cert`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--manage_firewall"></a>`manage_firewall`

Data type: `Boolean`

If `true`, puppet will manage your iptables rules for PuppetDB via the
[puppetlabs-firewall](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs/firewall) class.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_firewall`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--command_threads"></a>`command_threads`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The number of command processing threads to use. Defaults to `undef`, using the
PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::command_threads`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--concurrent_writes"></a>`concurrent_writes`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The number of threads allowed to write to disk at any one time. Defaults to
`undef`, which uses the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::concurrent_writes`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--store_usage"></a>`store_usage`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The amount of disk space (in MB) to allow for persistent message storage.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::store_usage`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--temp_usage"></a>`temp_usage`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The amount of disk space (in MB) to allow for temporary message storage.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::temp_usage`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--disable_update_checking"></a>`disable_update_checking`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Setting this to true disables checking for updated versions of PuppetDB and sending basic analytics data to Puppet.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_update_checking`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--certificate_whitelist_file"></a>`certificate_whitelist_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

The name of the certificate whitelist file to set up and configure in PuppetDB. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/certificate-whitelist` or `/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/certificate-whitelist` for FOSS and PE respectively.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::certificate_whitelist_file`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--certificate_whitelist"></a>`certificate_whitelist`

Data type: `Array`

Array of the X.509 certificate Common Names of clients allowed to connect to PuppetDB. Defaults to empty. Be aware that this permits full access to all Puppet clients to download anything contained in PuppetDB, including the full catalogs of all nodes, which possibly contain sensitive information. Set to `[ $::servername ]` to allow access only from your (single) Puppet master, which is enough for normal operation. Set to a list of Puppet masters if you have multiple.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::certificate_whitelist`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database_max_pool_size"></a>`database_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

When the pool reaches this size, and no idle connections are available, attempts to get a connection will wait for connection-timeout milliseconds before timing out.
Note that PuppetDB will use one pool for writes and another for reads, so the total number of connections used will be twice this setting.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_max_pool_size`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--read_database_max_pool_size"></a>`read_database_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

When the pool reaches this size, and no idle connections are available, attempts to get a connection will wait for connection-timeout milliseconds before timing out.
Note that PuppetDB will use one pool for writes and another for reads, so the total number of connections used will be twice this setting.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_max_pool_size`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--automatic_dlo_cleanup"></a>`automatic_dlo_cleanup`

Data type: `Boolean`

PuppetDB creates [Dead Letter Office](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/5.2/maintain_and_tune.html#clean-up-the-dead-letter-office).
Those are reports of failed requests. They spill up the disk. This parameter is
a boolean and defaults to false. You can enable automatic cleanup of DLO
reports by setting this to true.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::automatic_dlo_cleanup`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--cleanup_timer_interval"></a>`cleanup_timer_interval`

Data type: `String[1]`

The DLO cleanup is a systemd timer if systemd is available, otherwise a
cronjob. The variable configures the systemd.timer option [onCalender](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.timer.html#OnCalendar=).
It defaults to `*-*-* ${fqdn_rand(24)}:${fqdn_rand(60)}:00`. This will start
the cleanup service on a daily basis. The exact minute and hour is random
per node based on the [fqdn_rand](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/function.html#fqdnrand)
method. On non-systemd systems, the cron runs daily and the `$puppetdb_user` needs
to be able to run cron jobs. On systemd systems you need the [camptocamp/systemd](https://forge.puppet.com/camptocamp/systemd)
module, which is an optional dependency and not automatically installed!

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::cleanup_timer_interval`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--dlo_max_age"></a>`dlo_max_age`

Data type: `Integer[1]`

This is a positive integer. It describes the amount of days you want to keep
the DLO reports. The default value is 90 days.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::dlo_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--java_bin"></a>`java_bin`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

java binary path for PuppetDB. If undef, default will be used.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::java_bin`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--postgresql_password_encryption"></a>`postgresql_password_encryption`

Data type: `Postgresql::Pg_password_encryption`

PostgreSQL password authentication method, either `md5` or `scram-sha-256`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::password_encryption`

### <a name="openvoxdb--database--postgresql"></a>`openvoxdb::database::postgresql`

create the PuppetDB postgresql database

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `openvoxdb::database::postgresql` class:

* [`listen_addresses`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--listen_addresses)
* [`puppetdb_server`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--puppetdb_server)
* [`database_name`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_name)
* [`database_locale`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_locale)
* [`database_username`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_username)
* [`database_password`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_password)
* [`database_port`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_port)
* [`manage_database`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_database)
* [`manage_server`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_server)
* [`manage_package_repo`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_package_repo)
* [`postgres_version`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgres_version)
* [`postgresql_ssl_on`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_on)
* [`postgresql_ssl_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_cert_path)
* [`postgresql_ssl_key_path`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_key_path)
* [`postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path)
* [`read_database_username`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_username)
* [`read_database_password`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_password)
* [`read_database_host`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_host)
* [`password_sensitive`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--password_sensitive)
* [`password_encryption`](#-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--password_encryption)

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--listen_addresses"></a>`listen_addresses`

Data type: `Any`

The `listen_address` is a comma-separated list of hostnames or IP addresses on
which the postgres server should listen for incoming connections. This defaults
to `localhost`. This parameter maps directly to PostgreSQL's `listen_addresses`
config option. Use a `*` to allow connections on any accessible address.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--puppetdb_server"></a>`puppetdb_server`

Data type: `Any`

Hostname or IP address to configure for SSL rules.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_server`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_name"></a>`database_name`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the name of the database. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_locale"></a>`database_locale`

Data type: `Any`

Sets the locale of the database. Defaults to `C.UTF-8`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_locale`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_username"></a>`database_username`

Data type: `Any`

Creates a user for access the database. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_password"></a>`database_password`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]`

Sets the password for the database user above. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--database_port"></a>`database_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port that the database server listens on. Defaults to `5432`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_database"></a>`manage_database`

Data type: `Any`

If true, the PostgreSQL database will be managed by this module. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_database`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_server"></a>`manage_server`

Data type: `Any`

Conditionally manages the PostgreSQL server via `postgresql::server`. Defaults
to `true`. If set to `false`, this class will create the database and user via
`postgresql::server::db` but not attempt to install or manage the server itself.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_dbserver`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--manage_package_repo"></a>`manage_package_repo`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the official postgresql.org repo will be added and postgres won't
be installed from the regular repository. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_pg_repo`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgres_version"></a>`postgres_version`

Data type: `Any`

If the postgresql.org repo is installed, you can install several versions of
postgres. Defaults to `11` with PuppetDB version 7.0.0 or newer, and `9.6` in older versions.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgres_version`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_on"></a>`postgresql_ssl_on`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, it configures SSL connections between PuppetDB and the PostgreSQL database.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_on`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_cert_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_cert_path`

Data type: `Any`

Path to the Postgresql SSL certificate.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_key_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_key_path`

Data type: `Any`

Path to the Postgresql SSL key.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_key_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path"></a>`postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`

Data type: `Any`

Path to the Postgresql SSL CA.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_ca_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_username"></a>`read_database_username`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the read database user to connect as. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_password"></a>`read_database_password`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The password for the read database user. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This option is
supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--read_database_host"></a>`read_database_host`

Data type: `Any`

*This parameter must be set to use another PuppetDB instance for queries.*

The hostname or IP address of the read database server. If set to `undef`, and
`manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of the `database_host`
parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--password_sensitive"></a>`password_sensitive`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether password should be of Datatype Sensitive[String]

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--database--postgresql--password_encryption"></a>`password_encryption`

Data type: `Postgresql::Pg_password_encryption`

PostgreSQL password authentication method, either `md5` or `scram-sha-256`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::password_encryption`

### <a name="openvoxdb--master--config"></a>`openvoxdb::master::config`

manage the puppet configuration on the primary

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `openvoxdb::master::config` class:

* [`puppetdb_server`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_server)
* [`puppetdb_port`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_port)
* [`puppetdb_disable_ssl`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_disable_ssl)
* [`puppetdb_soft_write_failure`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_soft_write_failure)
* [`manage_routes`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_routes)
* [`manage_storeconfigs`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_storeconfigs)
* [`manage_report_processor`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_report_processor)
* [`manage_config`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_config)
* [`create_puppet_service_resource`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--create_puppet_service_resource)
* [`strict_validation`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--strict_validation)
* [`enable_reports`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--enable_reports)
* [`enable_storeconfigs`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--enable_storeconfigs)
* [`puppet_confdir`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_confdir)
* [`puppet_conf`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_conf)
* [`masterless`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--masterless)
* [`terminus_package`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--terminus_package)
* [`puppet_service_name`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_service_name)
* [`puppetdb_startup_timeout`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_startup_timeout)
* [`test_url`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--test_url)
* [`restart_puppet`](#-openvoxdb--master--config--restart_puppet)

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_server"></a>`puppetdb_server`

Data type: `Any`

The dns name or ip of the PuppetDB server. Defaults to the hostname of the
current node, i.e. `$::fqdn`.

Default value: `fact('networking.fqdn')`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_port"></a>`puppetdb_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port that the PuppetDB server is running on. Defaults to `8081`.

Default value:

```puppet
defined(Class['openvoxdb']) ? {
    true    => $openvoxdb::disable_ssl ? {
      true => 8080,
      default => 8081,
    },
    default => 8081
```

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_disable_ssl"></a>`puppetdb_disable_ssl`

Data type: `Any`

If true, use plain HTTP to talk to PuppetDB. Defaults to the value of
`disable_ssl` if PuppetDB is on the same server as the Puppet Master, or else
false. If you set this, you probably need to set `puppetdb_port` to match the HTTP
port of the PuppetDB.

Default value:

```puppet
defined(Class['openvoxdb']) ? {
    true    => $openvoxdb::disable_ssl,
    default => false
```

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_soft_write_failure"></a>`puppetdb_soft_write_failure`

Data type: `Any`

Boolean to fail in a soft manner if PuppetDB is not accessible for command
submission Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_routes"></a>`manage_routes`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will overwrite the Puppet master's routes file to
configure it to use PuppetDB. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_storeconfigs"></a>`manage_storeconfigs`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will manage the Puppet master's storeconfig settings.
Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_report_processor"></a>`manage_report_processor`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will manage the 'reports' field in the puppet.conf file to
enable or disable the PuppetDB report processor. Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--manage_config"></a>`manage_config`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will store values from `puppetdb_server` and `puppetdb_port`
parameters in the PuppetDB configuration file. If `false`, an existing PuppetDB
configuration file will be used to retrieve server and port values.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--create_puppet_service_resource"></a>`create_puppet_service_resource`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, AND if `restart_puppet` is true, then the module will create a service
resource for `puppet_service_name` if it has not been defined. Defaults to `true`.
If you are already declaring the `puppet_service_name` service resource in another
part of your code, setting this to `false` will avoid creation of that service
resource by this module, avoiding potential duplicate resource errors.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--strict_validation"></a>`strict_validation`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will fail if PuppetDB is not reachable, otherwise it will
preconfigure PuppetDB without checking.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--enable_reports"></a>`enable_reports`

Data type: `Any`

Ignored unless `manage_report_processor` is `true`, in which case this setting
will determine whether or not the PuppetDB report processor is enabled (`true`)
or disabled (`false`) in the puppet.conf file.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--enable_storeconfigs"></a>`enable_storeconfigs`

Data type: `Any`

Ignored unless `manage_storeconfigs` is `true`, in which case this setting
will determine whether or not client configuration storage is enabled (`true`)
or disabled (`false`) in the puppet.conf file.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_confdir"></a>`puppet_confdir`

Data type: `Any`

Puppet's config directory. Defaults to `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppet_confdir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_conf"></a>`puppet_conf`

Data type: `Any`

Puppet's config file. Defaults to `${puppet_confdir}/puppet.conf`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppet_conf`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--masterless"></a>`masterless`

Data type: `Any`

A boolean switch to enable or disable the masterless setup of PuppetDB. Defaults
to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::masterless`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--terminus_package"></a>`terminus_package`

Data type: `Any`

Name of the package to use that represents the PuppetDB terminus code.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::terminus_package`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppet_service_name"></a>`puppet_service_name`

Data type: `Any`

Name of the service that represents Puppet. You can change this to `apache2` or
`httpd` depending on your operating system, if you plan on having Puppet run
using Apache/Passenger for example.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppet_service_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--puppetdb_startup_timeout"></a>`puppetdb_startup_timeout`

Data type: `Any`

The maximum amount of time that the module should wait for PuppetDB to start up.
This is most important during the initial install of PuppetDB (defaults to 15
seconds).

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_startup_timeout`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--test_url"></a>`test_url`

Data type: `Any`

The URL to use for testing if the PuppetDB instance is running.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::test_url`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--master--config--restart_puppet"></a>`restart_puppet`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the module will restart the Puppet master when PuppetDB configuration
files are changed by the module. Defaults to `true`. If set to `false`, you
must restart the service manually in order to pick up changes to the config
files (other than `puppet.conf`).

Default value: `true`

### <a name="openvoxdb--server"></a>`openvoxdb::server`

manage the PuppetDB server

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `openvoxdb::server` class:

* [`listen_address`](#-openvoxdb--server--listen_address)
* [`listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--listen_port)
* [`disable_cleartext`](#-openvoxdb--server--disable_cleartext)
* [`open_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--open_listen_port)
* [`ssl_listen_address`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_listen_address)
* [`ssl_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_listen_port)
* [`disable_ssl`](#-openvoxdb--server--disable_ssl)
* [`open_ssl_listen_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--open_ssl_listen_port)
* [`ssl_protocols`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_protocols)
* [`postgresql_ssl_on`](#-openvoxdb--server--postgresql_ssl_on)
* [`cipher_suites`](#-openvoxdb--server--cipher_suites)
* [`migrate`](#-openvoxdb--server--migrate)
* [`manage_database`](#-openvoxdb--server--manage_database)
* [`database_host`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_host)
* [`database_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_port)
* [`database_username`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_username)
* [`database_password`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_password)
* [`manage_db_password`](#-openvoxdb--server--manage_db_password)
* [`database_name`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_name)
* [`jdbc_ssl_properties`](#-openvoxdb--server--jdbc_ssl_properties)
* [`database_validate`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_validate)
* [`node_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--server--node_ttl)
* [`node_purge_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--server--node_purge_ttl)
* [`report_ttl`](#-openvoxdb--server--report_ttl)
* [`facts_blacklist`](#-openvoxdb--server--facts_blacklist)
* [`gc_interval`](#-openvoxdb--server--gc_interval)
* [`node_purge_gc_batch_limit`](#-openvoxdb--server--node_purge_gc_batch_limit)
* [`conn_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--server--conn_max_age)
* [`conn_lifetime`](#-openvoxdb--server--conn_lifetime)
* [`puppetdb_package`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_package)
* [`puppetdb_version`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_version)
* [`puppetdb_service`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_service)
* [`puppetdb_service_status`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_service_status)
* [`puppetdb_user`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_user)
* [`puppetdb_group`](#-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_group)
* [`confdir`](#-openvoxdb--server--confdir)
* [`vardir`](#-openvoxdb--server--vardir)
* [`java_args`](#-openvoxdb--server--java_args)
* [`merge_default_java_args`](#-openvoxdb--server--merge_default_java_args)
* [`max_threads`](#-openvoxdb--server--max_threads)
* [`read_database_host`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_host)
* [`read_database_port`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_port)
* [`read_database_username`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_username)
* [`read_database_password`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_password)
* [`manage_read_db_password`](#-openvoxdb--server--manage_read_db_password)
* [`read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties)
* [`read_database_validate`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_validate)
* [`read_database_name`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_name)
* [`read_conn_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_conn_max_age)
* [`read_conn_lifetime`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_conn_lifetime)
* [`ssl_dir`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_dir)
* [`ssl_set_cert_paths`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_set_cert_paths)
* [`ssl_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_cert_path)
* [`ssl_key_pk8_path`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key_pk8_path)
* [`ssl_key_path`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key_path)
* [`ssl_ca_cert_path`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_ca_cert_path)
* [`ssl_deploy_certs`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_deploy_certs)
* [`ssl_key`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key)
* [`ssl_cert`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_cert)
* [`ssl_ca_cert`](#-openvoxdb--server--ssl_ca_cert)
* [`manage_firewall`](#-openvoxdb--server--manage_firewall)
* [`command_threads`](#-openvoxdb--server--command_threads)
* [`concurrent_writes`](#-openvoxdb--server--concurrent_writes)
* [`store_usage`](#-openvoxdb--server--store_usage)
* [`temp_usage`](#-openvoxdb--server--temp_usage)
* [`disable_update_checking`](#-openvoxdb--server--disable_update_checking)
* [`certificate_whitelist_file`](#-openvoxdb--server--certificate_whitelist_file)
* [`certificate_whitelist`](#-openvoxdb--server--certificate_whitelist)
* [`database_max_pool_size`](#-openvoxdb--server--database_max_pool_size)
* [`read_database_max_pool_size`](#-openvoxdb--server--read_database_max_pool_size)
* [`automatic_dlo_cleanup`](#-openvoxdb--server--automatic_dlo_cleanup)
* [`cleanup_timer_interval`](#-openvoxdb--server--cleanup_timer_interval)
* [`dlo_max_age`](#-openvoxdb--server--dlo_max_age)
* [`java_bin`](#-openvoxdb--server--java_bin)

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--listen_address"></a>`listen_address`

Data type: `Any`

The address that the web server should bind to for HTTP requests. Defaults to
`localhost`. Set to `0.0.0.0` to listen on all addresses.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::listen_address`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--listen_port"></a>`listen_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port on which the puppetdb web server should accept HTTP requests. Defaults
to `8080`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--disable_cleartext"></a>`disable_cleartext`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the puppetdb web server will only serve HTTPS and not HTTP requests (defaults to false).

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_cleartext`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--open_listen_port"></a>`open_listen_port`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, open the `http_listen_port` on the firewall. Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::open_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_listen_address"></a>`ssl_listen_address`

Data type: `Any`

The address that the web server should bind to for HTTPS requests. Defaults to
`0.0.0.0` to listen on all addresses.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_listen_address`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_listen_port"></a>`ssl_listen_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port on which the puppetdb web server should accept HTTPS requests. Defaults
to `8081`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--disable_ssl"></a>`disable_ssl`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, the puppetdb web server will only serve HTTP and not HTTPS requests.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_ssl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--open_ssl_listen_port"></a>`open_ssl_listen_port`

Data type: `Any`

If true, open the `ssl_listen_port` on the firewall. Defaults to `undef`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::open_ssl_listen_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_protocols"></a>`ssl_protocols`

Data type: `Any`

Specify the supported SSL protocols for PuppetDB (e.g. TLSv1, TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2.)

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_protocols`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--postgresql_ssl_on"></a>`postgresql_ssl_on`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, it configures SSL connections between PuppetDB and the PostgreSQL database.
Defaults to `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::postgresql_ssl_on`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--cipher_suites"></a>`cipher_suites`

Data type: `Any`

Configure jetty's supported `cipher-suites` (e.g. `SSL_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384`).
Defaults to `undef`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::cipher_suites`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--migrate"></a>`migrate`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, puppetdb will automatically migrate to the latest database format at startup. If `false`, if the database format supplied by this version of PuppetDB doesn't match the version expected (whether newer or older), PuppetDB will exit with an error status. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::migrate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--manage_database"></a>`manage_database`

Data type: `Any`

If true, the PostgreSQL database will be managed by this module. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_database`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_host"></a>`database_host`

Data type: `Any`

Hostname to use for the database connection. For single case installations this
should be left as the default. Defaults to `localhost`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_port"></a>`database_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port that the database server listens on. Defaults to `5432`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_username"></a>`database_username`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the database user to connect as. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_password"></a>`database_password`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The password for the database user. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--manage_db_password"></a>`manage_db_password`

Data type: `Any`

Whether or not the database password in database.ini will be managed by this module.
Set this to `false` if you want to set the password some other way.
Defaults to `true`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_db_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_name"></a>`database_name`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the database instance to connect to. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--jdbc_ssl_properties"></a>`jdbc_ssl_properties`

Data type: `Any`

The text to append to the JDBC connection URI. This should begin with a '?'
character. For example, to use SSL for the PostgreSQL connection, set this
parameter's value to `?ssl=true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::jdbc_ssl_properties`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_validate"></a>`database_validate`

Data type: `Any`

If true, the module will attempt to connect to the database using the specified
settings and fail if it is not able to do so. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_validate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--node_ttl"></a>`node_ttl`

Data type: `Any`

The length of time a node can go without receiving any new data before it's
automatically deactivated. (defaults to '7d', which is a 7-day period. Set to
'0d' to disable auto-deactivation).  This option is supported in PuppetDB >=
1.1.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--node_purge_ttl"></a>`node_purge_ttl`

Data type: `Any`

The length of time a node can be deactivated before it's deleted from the
database. (defaults to '14d', which is a 14-day period. Set to '0d' to disable
purging). This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.2.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_purge_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--report_ttl"></a>`report_ttl`

Data type: `Any`

The length of time reports should be stored before being deleted. (defaults to
`14d`, which is a 14-day period). This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.1.0.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::report_ttl`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--facts_blacklist"></a>`facts_blacklist`

Data type: `Optional[Array]`

A list of fact names to be ignored whenever submitted.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::facts_blacklist`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--gc_interval"></a>`gc_interval`

Data type: `Any`

This controls how often (in minutes) to compact the database. The compaction
process reclaims space and deletes unnecessary rows. If not supplied, the
default is every 60 minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 0.9.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::gc_interval`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--node_purge_gc_batch_limit"></a>`node_purge_gc_batch_limit`

Data type: `Any`

Nodes will be purged in batches of this size, one batch per gc-interval.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::node_purge_gc_batch_limit`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--conn_max_age"></a>`conn_max_age`

Data type: `Any`

The maximum time (in minutes) for a pooled connection to remain unused before
it is closed off.

If not supplied, we default to `60` minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.1.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::conn_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--conn_lifetime"></a>`conn_lifetime`

Data type: `Any`

The maximum time (in minutes) a pooled connection should remain open. Any
connections older than this setting will be closed off. Connections currently in
use will not be affected until they are returned to the pool.

If not supplied, we won't terminate connections based on their age alone. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.4.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::conn_lifetime`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_package"></a>`puppetdb_package`

Data type: `Any`

The PuppetDB package name in the package manager. Defaults to `present`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_package`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_version"></a>`puppetdb_version`

Data type: `String[1]`

Version of the PuppetDB package to install. Defaults to `present`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_version`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_service"></a>`puppetdb_service`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the PuppetDB service. Defaults to `puppetdb`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_service`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_service_status"></a>`puppetdb_service_status`

Data type: `Any`

Sets whether the service should be `running ` or `stopped`. When set to `stopped` the
service doesn't start on boot either. Valid values are `true`, `running`,
`false`, and `stopped`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_service_status`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_user"></a>`puppetdb_user`

Data type: `Any`

Puppetdb service user

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_user`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--puppetdb_group"></a>`puppetdb_group`

Data type: `Any`

Puppetdb service group

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::puppetdb_group`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--confdir"></a>`confdir`

Data type: `Any`

The PuppetDB configuration directory. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/conf.d`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::confdir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--vardir"></a>`vardir`

Data type: `Any`

The parent directory for the MQ's data directory.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::vardir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--java_args"></a>`java_args`

Data type: `Any`

Java VM options used for overriding default Java VM options specified in
PuppetDB package. Defaults to `{}`. See
[PuppetDB Configuration](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/configure.html)
to get more details about the current defaults.

For example, to set `-Xmx512m -Xms256m` options use:

    {
        '-Xmx' => '512m',
        '-Xms' => '256m',
    }

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::java_args`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--merge_default_java_args"></a>`merge_default_java_args`

Data type: `Any`

Sets whether the provided java args should be merged with the defaults, or
should override the defaults. This setting is necessary if any of the defaults
are to be removed. Defaults to true. If `false`, the `java_args` in the PuppetDB
init config file will reflect only what is passed via the `java_args` param.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::merge_default_java_args`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--max_threads"></a>`max_threads`

Data type: `Any`

Jetty option to explicitly set `max-threads`. Defaults to `undef`, so the
PuppetDB-Jetty default is used.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::max_threads`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_host"></a>`read_database_host`

Data type: `Any`

*This parameter must be set to use another PuppetDB instance for queries.*

The hostname or IP address of the read database server. If set to `undef`, and
`manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of the `database_host`
parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_host`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_port"></a>`read_database_port`

Data type: `Any`

The port that the read database server listens on. If `read_database_host`
is set to `undef`, and `manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of
the `database_port` parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_port`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_username"></a>`read_database_username`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the read database user to connect as. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_username`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_password"></a>`read_database_password`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Sensitive[String[1]]]`

The password for the read database user. Defaults to `puppetdb-read`. This option is
supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--manage_read_db_password"></a>`manage_read_db_password`

Data type: `Any`

Whether or not the database password in read-database.ini will be managed by this module.
Set this to `false` if you want to set the password some other way.
Defaults to `true`

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_read_db_password`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties"></a>`read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`

Data type: `Any`

The text to append to the JDBC connection URI. This should begin with a '?'
character. For example, to use SSL for the PostgreSQL connection, set this
parameter's value to `?ssl=true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_jdbc_ssl_properties`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_validate"></a>`read_database_validate`

Data type: `Any`

If true, the module will attempt to connect to the database using the specified
settings and fail if it is not able to do so. Defaults to `true`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_validate`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_name"></a>`read_database_name`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the read database instance to connect to. If `read_database_host`
is set to `undef`, and `manage_database` is set to `true`, it will use the value of
the `database_name` parameter. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_name`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_conn_max_age"></a>`read_conn_max_age`

Data type: `Any`

The maximum time (in minutes) for a pooled read database connection to remain
unused before it is closed off.

If not supplied, we default to 60 minutes. This option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_conn_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_conn_lifetime"></a>`read_conn_lifetime`

Data type: `Any`

The maximum time (in minutes) a pooled read database connection should remain
open. Any connections older than this setting will be closed off. Connections
currently in use will not be affected until they are returned to the pool.

If not supplied, we won't terminate connections based on their age alone. This
option is supported in PuppetDB >= 1.6.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_conn_lifetime`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_dir"></a>`ssl_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Base directory for PuppetDB SSL configuration. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/ssl`
or `/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/ssl` for FOSS and PE respectively.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_dir`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_set_cert_paths"></a>`ssl_set_cert_paths`

Data type: `Boolean`

A switch to enable or disable the management of SSL certificates in your
`jetty.ini` configuration file.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_set_cert_paths`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_cert_path"></a>`ssl_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to your SSL certificate for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key_pk8_path"></a>`ssl_key_pk8_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to the SSL pk8 key for populating `jetty.ini`, will be generated from
the SSL key as needed automatically.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key_pk8_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key_path"></a>`ssl_key_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to your SSL key for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_ca_cert_path"></a>`ssl_ca_cert_path`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to your SSL CA for populating `jetty.ini`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_ca_cert_path`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_deploy_certs"></a>`ssl_deploy_certs`

Data type: `Boolean`

A boolean switch to enable or disable the management of SSL keys in your
`ssl_dir`. Default is `false`.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_deploy_certs`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_key"></a>`ssl_key`

Data type: `Any`

Contents of your SSL key, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_key`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_cert"></a>`ssl_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Contents of your SSL certificate, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_cert`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--ssl_ca_cert"></a>`ssl_ca_cert`

Data type: `Any`

Contents of your SSL CA certificate, as a string.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::ssl_ca_cert`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--manage_firewall"></a>`manage_firewall`

Data type: `Any`

If `true`, puppet will manage your iptables rules for PuppetDB via the
[puppetlabs-firewall](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs/firewall) class.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::manage_firewall`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--command_threads"></a>`command_threads`

Data type: `Any`

The number of command processing threads to use. Defaults to `undef`, using the
PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::command_threads`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--concurrent_writes"></a>`concurrent_writes`

Data type: `Any`

The number of threads allowed to write to disk at any one time. Defaults to
`undef`, which uses the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::concurrent_writes`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--store_usage"></a>`store_usage`

Data type: `Any`

The amount of disk space (in MB) to allow for persistent message storage.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::store_usage`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--temp_usage"></a>`temp_usage`

Data type: `Any`

The amount of disk space (in MB) to allow for temporary message storage.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::temp_usage`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--disable_update_checking"></a>`disable_update_checking`

Data type: `Any`

Setting this to true disables checking for updated versions of PuppetDB and sending basic analytics data to Puppet.
Defaults to `undef`, using the PuppetDB built-in default.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::disable_update_checking`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--certificate_whitelist_file"></a>`certificate_whitelist_file`

Data type: `Any`

The name of the certificate whitelist file to set up and configure in PuppetDB. Defaults to `/etc/puppetdb/certificate-whitelist` or `/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/certificate-whitelist` for FOSS and PE respectively.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::certificate_whitelist_file`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--certificate_whitelist"></a>`certificate_whitelist`

Data type: `Any`

Array of the X.509 certificate Common Names of clients allowed to connect to PuppetDB. Defaults to empty. Be aware that this permits full access to all Puppet clients to download anything contained in PuppetDB, including the full catalogs of all nodes, which possibly contain sensitive information. Set to `[ $::servername ]` to allow access only from your (single) Puppet master, which is enough for normal operation. Set to a list of Puppet masters if you have multiple.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::certificate_whitelist`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--database_max_pool_size"></a>`database_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Any`

When the pool reaches this size, and no idle connections are available, attempts to get a connection will wait for connection-timeout milliseconds before timing out.
Note that PuppetDB will use one pool for writes and another for reads, so the total number of connections used will be twice this setting.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::database_max_pool_size`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--read_database_max_pool_size"></a>`read_database_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Any`

When the pool reaches this size, and no idle connections are available, attempts to get a connection will wait for connection-timeout milliseconds before timing out.
Note that PuppetDB will use one pool for writes and another for reads, so the total number of connections used will be twice this setting.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::read_database_max_pool_size`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--automatic_dlo_cleanup"></a>`automatic_dlo_cleanup`

Data type: `Boolean`

PuppetDB creates [Dead Letter Office](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/5.2/maintain_and_tune.html#clean-up-the-dead-letter-office).
Those are reports of failed requests. They spill up the disk. This parameter is
a boolean and defaults to false. You can enable automatic cleanup of DLO
reports by setting this to true.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::automatic_dlo_cleanup`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--cleanup_timer_interval"></a>`cleanup_timer_interval`

Data type: `String[1]`

The DLO cleanup is a systemd timer if systemd is available, otherwise a
cronjob. The variable configures the systemd.timer option [onCalender](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.timer.html#OnCalendar=).
It defaults to `*-*-* ${fqdn_rand(24)}:${fqdn_rand(60)}:00`. This will start
the cleanup service on a daily basis. The exact minute and hour is random
per node based on the [fqdn_rand](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/function.html#fqdnrand)
method. On non-systemd systems, the cron runs daily and the `$puppetdb_user` needs
to be able to run cron jobs. On systemd systems you need the [camptocamp/systemd](https://forge.puppet.com/camptocamp/systemd)
module, which is an optional dependency and not automatically installed!

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::cleanup_timer_interval`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--dlo_max_age"></a>`dlo_max_age`

Data type: `Integer[1]`

This is a positive integer. It describes the amount of days you want to keep
the DLO reports. The default value is 90 days.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::dlo_max_age`

##### <a name="-openvoxdb--server--java_bin"></a>`java_bin`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

java binary path for PuppetDB. If undef, default will be used.

Default value: `$openvoxdb::params::java_bin`

## Resource types

### <a name="puppetdb_conn_validator"></a>`puppetdb_conn_validator`

Verify that a connection can be successfully established between a node
and the puppetdb server.  Its primary use is as a precondition to
prevent configuration changes from being applied if the puppetdb
server cannot be reached, but it could potentially be used for other
purposes such as monitoring.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `puppetdb_conn_validator` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `puppetdb_conn_validator` type.

* [`name`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--name)
* [`provider`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--provider)
* [`puppetdb_port`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--puppetdb_port)
* [`puppetdb_server`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--puppetdb_server)
* [`test_url`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--test_url)
* [`timeout`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--timeout)
* [`use_ssl`](#-puppetdb_conn_validator--use_ssl)

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--name"></a>`name`

namevar

An arbitrary name used as the identity of the resource.

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `puppetdb_conn_validator` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet
will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--puppetdb_port"></a>`puppetdb_port`

The port that the puppetdb server should be listening on.

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--puppetdb_server"></a>`puppetdb_server`

The DNS name or IP address of the server where puppetdb should be running.

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--test_url"></a>`test_url`

URL to use for testing if the PuppetDB database is up

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--timeout"></a>`timeout`

The max number of seconds that the validator should wait before giving up and deciding that puppetdb is not running;
defaults to 15 seconds.

Default value: `15`

##### <a name="-puppetdb_conn_validator--use_ssl"></a>`use_ssl`

Whether the connection will be attempted using https

Default value: `true`

## Functions

### <a name="openvoxdb--create_subsetting_resource_hash"></a>`openvoxdb::create_subsetting_resource_hash`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

The openvoxdb::create_subsetting_resource_hash function.

#### `openvoxdb::create_subsetting_resource_hash(Hash $java_args, Any $params)`

The openvoxdb::create_subsetting_resource_hash function.

Returns: `Any`

##### `java_args`

Data type: `Hash`



##### `params`

Data type: `Any`



### <a name="openvoxdb--flatten_java_args"></a>`openvoxdb::flatten_java_args`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

The openvoxdb::flatten_java_args function.

#### `openvoxdb::flatten_java_args(Optional[Hash] $java_args)`

The openvoxdb::flatten_java_args function.

Returns: `String`

##### `java_args`

Data type: `Optional[Hash]`



## Data types

### <a name="Openvoxdb--Ttl"></a>`Openvoxdb::Ttl`

The Openvoxdb::Ttl data type.

Alias of `Pattern[/^\d+(d|h|m|s|ms)$/]`

